OOPS CONCEPTS


CLASS:

    Class is a user-defined datatype,which acts as a blue print for creating objects.
    Class can have only data or only functions but giving both,Class will be meaningful.
    By default Class is a private.

 How it works:
      The memory is allocated when an object is created.So until that class is just a template.
 Syntax:
        class Class_name:
         //data members
         //Member functions

Object:
     Object is a physical representation of both data and functions.
     And it acts as a instance of a class (As it allocates memoy for a class).
Syntax:
     
       

Encapsulation:
          The process of binding the data and the functions in a single place.
          And it is used for data hiding with the help of access modifiers.
          Example:  Bank account,As the 


Abstraction:
         The process of hiding internal implementation and showing the essential features.
         Also helps in Security

        Example: Mobile phone is the real time example,As it hides the internal parts.

Polymorphism:
       One thing that exist in many forms.
       Example: + operator is used for Addition in numbers and for string it concat the words.

Method overloading:
       A method is overloaded with different parameters.The suitable method is chosen at the time of compilation.
       Differ in No.of Arguments,Type of Arguments,Order of arguments.
       Example:
             def add(self, a, b):
             //Overloaded method with 3 parameters
             def add(self, a, b, c):
        
Method overridding:
         when a child class has its method implementation for the method already present in the parent class.
         The sud class will override the methods in the parent class.
         Example: Transport,As it have many types transport like Car,bike etc,All vehicles will start but the starting method is different.

Inheritance:
        The process of giving or taking the property from one class to another.

Parent/Super class:
       The class which is giving the properties to another class is called Super class.
Child/Subclass:
       The class which is taking the properties from another class is called Sub class.

Types of Inheritance:

*) Single inheritance:
          The Subclass inherits the properties from only one class.So there will be no conflicts.
          Example: Employeement is a super class,where in that Employee is a subclass in this Employee will inherit the common details from Employeement.

*) Multilevel inheritance:
          The Subclass inherits the properties from superclass and then that subclass acts as a superclass for another subclass.There will be a chain 
          Example:  Employeement is a super class,where in that Employee is a subclass in this Employee will inherit the common details from Employeement.    
 *) Hirerachial inheritance:
            In this multiple subclasses inherit from a single parent class.
            Example: Employeement is a super class,where in that employee is a subclass and Manager is also a subclass where the details is inherit the properties from super class.